The Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon him) said:

> "Verily to Allah belongs ninety-nine names. One hundred less one. Whoever enumerates them (learns, memorises, understands and acts upon them) will enter paradise." (Muslim)

## اللّٰه — Allah

Concerning the name Allah, Ibnul-Qayyim (Rahimahullah) said:

The name Allah indicates all of the perfect names and lofty attributes in all three ways of indication since it indicates His divinity, which indicates affirmation of all the characteristics of divinity for Him, along with negation of their opposites for Him. The attributes of divinity are the attributes of perfection – being free from any likeness with the creation and free of any deficiency or imperfection.

As for the particular virtues of the meaning of this name, Allah, then in this regard the most knowledgeable of the creation, Prophet Muhammad (Peace be upon him), said:

> "I could not praise you enough as you deserve, you are as you have praised yourself." (Muslim)

Ibnul-Qayyim said, So how could we enumerate the special virtues of the name of the one who comprises every perfection, unrestrictedly, and every praise and commendation and every laudation and exaltation and all splendor and all perfection and all glory and all beauty and all good and all eminence and all generosity, excellence, and goodness is for Him and is from Him.

So this name, Allah, is not mentioned upon a small amount of something except that it causes it to increase. It is not mentioned in a state of fear except that it removes it, nor is it mentioned upon any misfortune except that it relieves it, nor in any state of anxiety and distress except that it brings relief, nor upon any state of difficulty except that it brings ease to it.

None who is weak resorts to it except that it brings strength to him, nor anyone in a state of humiliation except that it brings honor to him, nor anyone in poverty except that he is enriched, nor anyone who feels estranged and uneasy except that it causes him to feel at ease.

It is not mentioned by one who has been overcome except that it brings aid and victory for him, nor by one who is in straitened circumstances except that his difficulty is removed. It is not mentioned by a fugitive except that he finds refuge.

So it is the name through which distress is removed, through which the descent of blessings is sought, through which supplications are answered, through it slips are corrected, sins are warded away, and good deeds are brought closer.

It is the name with which the earth and heavens were established and with which the revealed books were sent down and with which the Messengers were sent. With it the legislated laws were prescribed, and through it, the prescribed punishments were established.

Through this name the creation will become divided into the fortunate and the wretched, with it the true and tremendous day is established, and with it the scales of justice are set up, the bridge laid down, and the paradise and the fire established.

With it the Lord of all creation is worshipped and praised. For its right the Messengers were sent, and it will be asked about in the grave, and for it will be the resurrection. Dispute is regarding it, and judgement is to it, and alliance and enmity are for it, through it, those who know it and establish its rights will be the fortunate ones.

And through it those who are ignorant of it and leave its rights are wretched ones, so it is the reason for the creation and command, and through it, they are established and confirmed, and to it, they arrive at a conclusion, so the creation comes about through it, returns to it, and exists because of it.

So there is nothing in the creation and no command, no reward and no punishment except that it starts from it and ends with it. That is what brings it about and its reason, and he quotes the Ayaat:

> "Oh Lord you have not created all of this without purpose, free and far removed are you from that, so save us from the punishment of the fire." (Quran 3:191)
